---
layout: single
title: "Islamica"
---
 #byUkiDLucas #public
# Islamica

Today, I have been reading the Magazine "Islamica" to learn the the  
enlightened voices of muslims that otherwise may be muffled by the  
images of war in the blood-thirsty mass media.
The magazine started with the article stating pretty much the same as  
the latter part of the previous sentence, plus the fact that there are  
very few muslim who are able, or willing, to communicate to the  
western world the more beautiful aspects of their culture. I though,  
the page was objective, even if somewhat academic and pointless.
The following were the news snippets that I thought were right on,  
good starting.
Next came the article about corruption involving muslim in Trinidad  
and Tobago, It was interesting, I thought, even if the sources  
opposing the corruption were unnamed "prominent muslims" which I grew  
to expect - this idea goes back to the first article.
The funny picture caricature of VP Dick Chaney (I presume) defying the  
global warming, that was an interesting choice since most of the  
muslim world is oblivious to the ecological issues in North Africa,  
Arab peninsula, Indonesia, or elsewhere. In fact the symbol of  
progress in arab world - Dubai - is a totally ecological-defying  
creation. I hope that was precisely the point, by laughing at others  
we can understand that we are wrong ourselves.
Then came a couple of articles which are pure anti-USA propaganda. My  
stomach cramped, I have seen so much of that in my life in my 18 years  
I have lived in the socialist Poland influenced by Russian communism.  
Even until very recently, I had some Polish relatives calling America  
rotten names, straight of the communist repertoire. Propaganda that  
brings hatred and not a thinnest thread of possibility for the  
reconciliation, or cooperation.
I am really sorry and disappointed, dear "Islamica", I will try to  
finish the magazine and find valuable and good points about your  
culture, but I am not sure if you are doing yourselves a favor by  
adding the oil to the fire.
