---
layout: single
title: "Little things that make us happy"
---
 #byUkiDLucas #public
 
 # Little things that make us happy

It is the unexpected little things that make the life so great and worth living. Today, I want to write about things that uplift and motivate us when everyday things get a little boring, a little difficult and lonely. Looking at people all around one can get the idea that others are happy, busy and successful, or at least are pursuing the happiness, while we are unsure of the future, beat up by the past with a great pile of bills waiting at home to be opened. Yes, that is me, too. Most of the time I feel that the only thing I can manage in life is to struggle, so many times I have failed people around me, I have lost contact with people whom I should have kept close, I did not do, or provide, what I should have. All of it is crushing my self esteem and the will to persevere. It is even hard to keep good sleep hours and diet when you are alone. Not that I am lazy, quite opposite, I keep doing things a little more, a little longer, hoping that it will somehow make a difference, that I will have a happy break. It sometimes work. The resume keeps growing, the opportunities materialize, but as it is a human nature, soon after we forget the blessings from the past. Vicious cycle, rat race.

   Today was one of these days, nothing to complain really, I worked whole day, never even making a dent in what I would like to have accomplished. I could have been proud of myself if I had a drop of objectivism in my life, but I don't. After work, I went to Barnes & Noble for coffee to study a little more and when I could not do that anymore I decided to go and see a movie.

   At this point I would like to write about what I intended, the good things in life. The movie was surpassingly good, it was about great love and heroes. People do need heroes, we have been conditioned for tens of thousands of years to gather together at night around the fire and to listen stories about heroes, it is a fabric of our lives, what makes us human. Back in the days it was our tribe, our friends, that would tell and re-tell the stories of the past, that would laugh with us at our mistakes and highlight, often exaggerate, our adventures which with time became the stuff of legends. We don't have much of that today, people, even those close to us are hardly ever willing to sing songs about us, there are no more heroes in everyday lives. Too bad, really. However, we have movies. We have books that are full of heroes. They keep us going, they keep us from becoming total zombies as everyone down deep wants to be a knight on a white horse chopping heads off the bad guys and winning the great love of a fair lady.
     Surprisingly, today, what made me feel inspired was a totally unexpected YouTube I found on Facebook, "Spoken Word" by 
[Hollie McNish](https://www.youtube.com/user/holliemcnish?feature=watch)
 reciting a poem, in what can be considered a heavy, rather rough Brit accent. I was absolutely captivated, I felt that I have not heard the power of the spoken word for years, an art I have totally neglected. I simply have forgotten how powerful words can be. People have oils and charcoal, paintings and sketches - I love visual arts, too, but most of all I love words. Her performance made me realize how much I have missed the art of story telling, poetry of words. All suddenly, I felt home with myself again knowing who I really am, what makes me happy. I could see with the eye of my mind the fire place, the pages of paper and a real fountain pen with golden tip gliding effortlessly, telling stories, composing poems. I could see the old, polished table, a window, the snow outside and evergreen trees of the mountains. I could see an outdoor cafe above the ocean, the typewriter and the pages of a novel coming out of it with a lovely staccato of keys pressed. I could see an old pension house in a small resort town in Polish mountains, piano, library, low coffee table and a comfortable sofa, rain outside, deep thoughts, writing.

    Totally by chance, I stumbled upon books signing session in the book store tonight, the author, a lovely black lady has had interviewed countless happy couples around the world who have been together for 25 years, or longer. I've sat in and listened, I've got hope and warmth in return. I've got the book signed by the author and a cup hot chocolate. I wrote these words and I can go sleep happily. Good night dear Natalia, I love you.
