---
layout: single
title: "Pluto for kids with Julia language"
---
#public 
#software #JuliaLang 


published: 2022-06-29 
updated: 2022-07-04 

- [[Pluto.jl]]
- [[Julia language]] 
- [[children]]

# Pluto for kids with Julia language

I have installed Pluto.jl for Julia language and while going thru the exercises provided by the creators, I realized that it would be a great tool to teach my kids programming. 
And, it is not any toy programming, programming in the best of the scientific languages ! 

## How does the Pluto.jl work? 

You write one, or multiple, lines of code in each "cell" and execute it. Once you finish writing and executing a line, you can HIDE the code and only leave the result. All other cells are able to "see" what you wrote and evaluate it, providing immediate feedback. The following two images illustrate this better than I can describe in words: 
  
## Is Pluto.jl only for Mathematics? 

Absolutely not! It is a generic programming environment. You can create word games, and anything else that you can imagine. I use it as my primary programming tool. 

## What are the next steps with Pluto.jl for kids? 

Now, I have to write a few notebooks that are age-appropriate for my kids. I will post them online so you can download them, but I believe YOU should learn how to create them, too. You might find a new great hobby for yourself. Look inside the links I posted below for any updates. 

## Will I maintain this post with new updates on Pluto.jl for kids?

Most likely not, please check the links below for the updates. References - Pluto.jl folder (this article): 
https://github.com/UkiDLucas/QUANTA_QUALIA_Julia/tree/master/src/pluto 
https://github.com/UkiDLucas/QUANTA_QUALIA_Julia/tree/master/src/pluto 

Pluto.jl for kids: 
https://github.com/UkiDLucas/QUANTA_QUALIA_Julia/tree/master/src/pluto/Pluto.jl%20for%20kids 
https://github.com/UkiDLucas/QUANTA_QUALIA_Julia/tree/master/src/pluto/Pluto.jl%20for%20kids 