---
layout: single
title: "Post 9. Uki's Stoa Sophia, Scott Galloway, Avi Kiriaty, Oliver Burkeman"
---
#BeeHiiv #byUkiDLucas #public 


Dear Reader,

Very often, when I am insanely busy at work and in my private life, I tell myself that today I will rest, sleep early, and not write. Then, I think about things I want to share. Tonight is one of these days. The kids have gone to bed, so let me write a few things.

Every day, when I sit down to write to you, reader, I give a lot of thought to make sure it is interesting, educational, and relevant to the mission of this publication:

“A compendium of letters blending technology startup management, stoic philosophy, active lifestyle ethos, and a love for culture. It aims to mentor and inspire through insightful content and practical advice, focusing on personal and professional growth for a balanced and fulfilling life.”

 
~ Uki D. Lucas
What is inside?
Scott Galloway’s TED talk

Avi Kiriaty art

I am not a “reader” — I have a name!

You can help me, too.

Why do I include the mission statement?

References

Thank you!

[[Scott Galloway]]’s [[TED]] talk
I stay away from politics, drama, current events, etc., but I had a chance to listen to Scott Galloway at TED, and I thought it was essential to share it.

You do not have to agree with everything he says, but I want you to consider it. I listened to it once, then again at 75% speed.

Nota Bene: If you are a YouTube employee, please add an 85% speed option. It is ridiculous that you have not figured out yet that sometimes, you have to slow down for “people like me.”

Link on the bottom. I want you to read the rest.

Avi Kiriaty art
During a recent visit to Maui, I learned about a local artist, [[Avi Kiriaty]].
Avi was obviously influenced by [[Gaugain]]’s exploits in French Polynesia.



Oliver Burkeman book
I am listening to [[Oliver Burkeman]]'s book “Time Management for Mortals.”

This is the second time I have been listening to the book. This time at 75% speed. Do you see the pattern here? The book is a gem. No, it does not say to go faster, work harder, and optimize. I learned so much from it. Stoic. If you decide to buy the book, please click the provided link.


I